To achieve high throughput and scalability on topics, Kafka supports partitioning.
When Kafka topic is partitioned,
the topic log is split or partitioned into multiple files.
Each of these files represents a partition.
If there are multiple Kafka brokers in the cluster,
the partitions will typically be distributed amongst the brokers in the cluster evenly.
So you can see here we have a couple of leader brokers.
We have broker zero is the rear broker for partition A,
which I've outlined here in orange and bolded
and broker two is the leader broker for partition B.
Now, you'll see broker one is not the leader for any topic.
It is simply a replica of partition A and B,
same thing with broker two for partition A.
It is not the leader of partition A,
so it is said to be a replica for partition A.
Likewise, broker zero provides a replica of partition B.
When Kafka producers produce messages to a topic,
by default the message is hashed to identify which partition should receive the message.
So here we have a producer.
When it produces a message,
it hashes the message.
So these first two messages might get hashed to partition A.
If another message is produced,
it might get hashed to partition B.
Using this hashing approach,
messages are distributed evenly amongst these partitions. Why does this matter?
Why would you want to partition a topic?
Partitions are how consumers and producer code achieve parallelism with Kafka.
Kafka producers can asynchronously produce messages to
many partitions at once from within the same application.
Additionally, if the cluster contains more than one broker,
more than one broker can receive the data as well
further increasing the speed at which data is ingested.
Similarly, consumers of the topic data
can utilize a parallel approach for each partition.
This increases the speed at which consumers can pull data off the topics themselves.